# Requirements

## Cluster

To start this tutorial, you'll need to have access to a working Kubernetes cluster.
We'll use [minikube](https://kubernetes.io/fr/docs/setup/learning-environment/minikube/) in our tutorial.

> Take care of which version of minikube you have installed - recently some minkube/Kubernetes version were incompatible on Ubuntu.

Once minikube is installed, you can start your cluster with `minikube start`.
Ensure your cluster is running with the following command :

```bash
$ kubectl get nodes
NAME       STATUS   ROLES                  AGE   VERSION
minikube   Ready    control-plane,master   87s   v1.22.3
```

## flux cli

The flux cli will help us administer the flux ressources; install it following the documentation linked here : https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/.

On linux, you can install it with `curl -s https://fluxcd.io/install.sh | sudo bash`.

Check it is correctly installed with the following command :

```bash
$ flux --version
flux version 0.31.5
```

## Github Account

> You can use a Gitlab / Other git repo account with Flux, however this tutorial will only cover how to use flux with Github. See [the installation documentation](https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/#github-and-github-enterprise) for the other servers.

You'll need a Github account to create a repository and push commits to it.
Moreover, you'll need to create a Personal Access Token to allow flux to create a Deploy Key (linked to this PAT); to do so, follow [this link](https://github.com/settings/tokens/new?description=fluxv2-demo&scopes=repo) (permissions should be repo:*).

Copy the generated PAT and save it in an environment variable :
```bash
export GITHUB_TOKEN="<your-token>"
```

> You won't be able to access the token once you've closed the page, so be sure to have it saved somewhere !

## How this tutorial / hands-on will work
You should just follow each instruction file, one after the other. The `solutions` folder contains the state of the repository you should have after each instruction.
