# Helmreleases

Deploying applications on Kubernetes is often done using Helm. You can use Helm with flux by using its CRD "helmreleases", which basically defines a `helm upgrade --install` command as a Kubernetes object.

## Example with KubeSeal

## Define a HelmRepository

First, we need to indicate to flux from which repository the helm you want to install will come from; this is done with the `HelmRepository` resource.

You can place your helmrepositories in two ways :
- in the same folder as the application you're installing - useful when there's only one release installed from the repository
- in a common folder (e.g. named `helmrepositories`) at the root of your monitored folder - useful when multiple releases depend from the repository.

We'll test the installation of `kube-seal`, a tool used to encrypt your secret in order to store them in git.

```yaml
# cat environments/minikube/dev/applications/sealed-secrets/helmrepository.yaml
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: HelmRepository
metadata:
  name: sealed-secrets
  namespace: sealed-secrets
spec:
  interval: 1h
  url: https://bitnami-labs.github.io/sealed-secrets
```

Take care as to how you specify the `interval` parameter, which defines the interval between two `helm repo update` commands to update the helm index : for open-source repositories, once per hour is a good value, but for your own development repositories / environments you might want to decrease this value.

## Define a HelmRelease

Now that we have a HelmRepository, we can go and create our first HelmRelease:

```yaml
# cat environments/minikube/dev/applications/sealed-secrets/sealed-secrets-helmrelease.yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: sealed-secrets
  namespace: sealed-secrets
spec:
  interval: 5m
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: sealed-secrets
      version: '2.5.2'
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: sealed-secrets
        namespace: sealed-secrets
      interval: 5m
```

> It's often superfluous to have the interval in the HelmRelease greater to the one defined in the HelmRepository.

You should now see the HelmRelease being deployed in the sealed-secrets namespace.

## More configuration availables in Helm !

You can define the advanced behavior of the Helm deployment in this object :
```yaml
[...]
spec:
  dependsOn: [] # link to other HelmReleases that must be deployed before this one

  # parameters for the different helm lifecycle operations :
  install: {}
  upgrade: {}
  test: {}
  rollback: {}
  uninstall: {}

  # parameters for the helm installation / upgrade :
  values: {} # map of values to use for the helm install
  valuesFrom: [] # list of resources to use to populates the values (e.g. secrets)
  postRenderers: []

  suspend: false # disable the Helm reconciliation - useful when you're testing deployments manually.
```

The use of flux to install your helm releases will enable you to have both quicker deployment cycle and longer deployment time :
Since you're not manually deploying your helm release, you can afford to have longer Helm hooks and Helm tests, which will enable you to have a stabler application in your gitops deployment.

At the very least, I'd recommend for your helm releases of webapp to have a test of connectivity, to allow for a quick rollback if something went wrong (and if the k8s Deployment didn't catch that).

[doc](https://fluxcd.io/docs/components/helm/helmreleases/)
