# Multi-tenancy

We've seen how to administer a monorepo, where you declared all your ressources for all your cluster in the same place.
We've also seen how to administer a multi-repo, enabling you to spread the configurations across different repositories.
This is great for an easy setup, but what if you wanted to have a fine-grained control over who can modify which component ? In the current multi-repo setup, the "secondary-repo" has the same rights as the root repositories, which is too great for a simple application repository.

That's where the multitenancy setup comes into place.

> A multi-tenancy setup is not equal to a multi-repo architecture; you can use flux on a multi-repo arch with a single tenant, simply by adding a GitRepo and an associated Kustomization file.

## Add a tenant

```bash
flux create tenant secondary-flux-repo \
    --with-namespace=apps \
    --export > environments/minikube/dev/tenants/secondary-repo/tenant.yaml
```

Now, let's change the namespaces of the objects created for the tenant to `app-secondary-tenant` and restrict them to the namespace `apps` :

```bash
# change the kustomization to restrict the deployment of the tenant
flux create kustomization secondary-flux-repo \
    --namespace=apps \
    --target-namespace=apps \
    --service-account=secondary-flux-repo \
    --source=GitRepository/secondary-flux-repo.flux-system \
    --path="./deploy/dev" \
    --export > environments/minikube/dev/tenants/secondary-repo/kustomization-flux.yaml
```

The tenant permissions will be defined by the serviceaccount apps/secondary-flux-repo, who for now is admin on the namespace `apps`. You can restrict these rights (e.g. only allow some ressources to be created) or expand them as you want.

All the elements defined in the tenant repository will now be created in the `apps` namespace by default.

## Addendum

I strongly recommend using a multi-repo / multi-tenant approach to flux; while it is harder to setup compared to the monorepo, it will solidify your flux pipeline : the weak link of the pipeline is the Kustomize apply, who will fail to apply/update for all ressources under its scope if one of them is badly defined; by using multiple Kustomize, you reduce the impact of a bad commit to the team / application concerned by it, instead of everyone.

Good linters should catch these kinds of things before they happen, but better be safe than sorry !

## See also :
[doc](https://fluxcd.io/docs/guides/repository-structure/)
[example](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-multi-tenancy)
[enforce strict lockdown](https://fluxcd.io/docs/installation/#multi-tenancy-lockdown)
https://capsule.clastix.io/docs/guides/flux2-capsule/ ?
